---
title: "A Multi-Omics Perspective of Quantitative Trait Loci in Precision Medicine"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-02-24-paper
excerpt: 'The enormous volume of genotyping data provides opportunities to discover novel types of QTLs.
Various types of QTLs have emerged through advances in high-throughput technologies, including those for the transcriptome, epigenome, proteome, metabolome, and microbiome.
Advanced algorithms enable the identification and inference of the causal effects of molQTLs.
Integrative analysis of multi-omics data advances our understanding of the functional significance of genetic variants.'
date: 2020-02-24
venue: 'Trends in Genetics'
paperurl: 'https://www.cell.com/trends/genetics/fulltext/S0168-9525(20)30025-1'
citation: 'Ye Y, Zhang Z, Liu Y, et al. A multi-omics perspective of quantitative trait loci in precision medicine[J]. Trends in Genetics, 2020, 36(5): 318-336.'
---
### Highlights
The enormous volume of genotyping data provides opportunities to discover novel types of QTLs.
Various types of QTLs have emerged through advances in high-throughput technologies, including those for the transcriptome, epigenome, proteome, metabolome, and microbiome.
Advanced algorithms enable the identification and inference of the causal effects of molQTLs.
Integrative analysis of multi-omics data advances our understanding of the functional significance of genetic variants.
Quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis is an important approach to investigate the effects of genetic variants identified through an increasing number of large-scale, multidimensional ‘omics data sets. In this ‘big data’ era, the research community has identified a significant number of molecular QTLs (molQTLs) and increased our understanding of their effects. Herein, we review multiple categories of molQTLs, including those associated with transcriptome, post-transcriptional regulation, epigenetics, proteomics, metabolomics, and the microbiome. We summarize approaches to identify molQTLs and to infer their causal effects. We further discuss the integrative analysis of molQTLs through a multi-omics perspective. Our review highlights future opportunities to better understand the functional significance of genetic variants and to utilize the discovery of molQTLs in precision medicine.
[Download paper here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168952520300251/pdfft?md5=afeed99bc9354ec3d721384999601e2e&pid=1-s2.0-S0168952520300251-main.pdf)

Recommended citation: Ye Y, Zhang Z, Liu Y, et al. A multi-omics perspective of quantitative trait loci in precision medicine[J]. Trends in Genetics, 2020, 36(5): 318-336.
